I saw the spark in their eyes when they were given something to lead and they believed in them so much
and I feel the power. I am sure that for these children, this will not be forgotten.
This year we set out with the Mental Leader program in Mathematics
out of the understanding that success in mathematics does not rely only on knowledge but also on a sense of capability, perseverance, and personal excellence.
17 teachers from seven schools in the city underwent a significant professional and mental process.
They learned to look at learning in a different way, to identify the places where students get stuck or give up
and to turn those moments into a growth engine.
Inside the classrooms, they implemented mental tools such as success tests, self-assessment, goal setting, and learning from mistakes.
Through these tools, a new language began to be built – a language that speaks about effort, responsibility, and the belief in the ability to improve.
These conversations I would have with the students aren't just for nothing, and they aren't just something that is only a personal connection;
they really build a certain process and a certain independent learner.
The very discourse, this language that stops, is already the elevation of the students, of the people for whom it is more difficult.
The very fact that there is a language and they are told, 'Guys, it's not all going to be just grades and knowledge now,
but also the building of your character, learning from mistakes,' all these things we are going to learn together, how to get out of it. Not just from
learning that 2 plus 2 equals 4, but everything around it. And I think it gave and gives some effect both to me and to them.
Truly students who arrived from a very low starting point, and even if they haven't yet reached the 'top'
like 70 or 80, you see that something in their self-confidence and motivation
is changing. That is to say, these are two things that seem parallel to us but are a bit different,
and as soon as a child has this place where their mental axis is strengthened,
and their motivation and the results of these 'fitness tests'
give them joy—it's not just confidence, but a confidence that is justified.
Alongside the work in the classrooms, we created a citywide community that speaks the same language; it's very noticeable in the discourse and discussions.
The teachers didn't just acquire tools; they began to think together, to refine together, and thus build an innovative educational perception
of the mathematical mindset. One of the most exciting things that emerged from the process
is that the change didn't just occur among the students, but also among the teachers themselves.
The teachers dared to take on new professional challenges—advancing to teaching for matriculation exams
at the highest levels, leading classes to impressive achievements, integrating innovative tools into their teaching,
even choosing to stay in the system out of a renewed sense of meaning. The teachers testified that they
themselves experienced professional mental development. They testified that belonging to the Mental Leader program
was for them a privilege, an anchor, and a source for personal development. And for me, this is the essence of the program:
to build within the city and within the schools a community of teachers who lead a real change—
one that starts with their professional identity, continues with their shared language and teaching practices,
and influences the way students learn, progress, and begin to believe in themselves